I would like to introduce the prototype I built for aligning Japanese text and audio.
This is based on web technologies and runs in the browser.
First, one needs to load the audio and then the text.
I prepared a demo and this is Gongitsune, a story by Nankichi Niimi.
Then I used the popular Vosk library for recognizing the audio and extracting the text.
This will take some time.
I skipped a bit of the recognition process because it takes some time.
All of this runs locally, there is no backend server, so everything needs to be called in JavaScript.
The left side is the transcription of the audio file.
The right side is just some simple text.
Now one can align both sides.
This uses the Needleman-Wunsch algorithm.
It's an old algorithm from bioinformatics for sequence alignment.
When visualizing the intervals, one can see that each word got detected.
For each word, one has a beginning and an end in the audio file.
I also included some simple detection of the silence intervals, so it's easy to wrap the parts into sentences.
There are still some bugs left, but in general it works as expected.
Now it misses some interactivity for fixing small bugs I introduced or the algorithm introduced.
Thank you.